# Chapter One - Rain

Zuko Sozin stared into the grey sky above him, droplets of water moisting his face. It was night in Republica and possibly the last one for him. He knew his father - however scarce he appreciated his son - would be outraged and demand the heads of the ones responsible. As his power was but a shadow since the surrender some seven years ago it wouldn't seem propable that someone were to investigate his demise.  
Zuko even doubted that his father would mourn. His mother would, not doubt there. And his sister? She would be overjoyed. His uncle! He would mourn for he had taken him in and took care of him ever since his father - no, Ozai - booted him out. Yes his uncle would mourn possibly even more then his mother. His heart grew heavy on the thought of the kind man. As his vision faded so did the rain and unveiled the rare sight of stars. He smiled. He hadn't in a long time, at least the enjoyed kind. It felt$\dots$ odd but good. For his father and his cruel teachings long since taken any form of emotional expression and only permitted them when praised. Suddenly there were footsteps. He more felt them than actually hearing them. In his steadily dimming view appeared a boy. He was young and pale but more than that Zuko couldn't see and he didn't care. The boy said something but Zuko didn't hear a word. The injuries against his head, he surmised, propably had a good part in this. The boy, apparently having crouched, scurried around him and touched Zuko, placing bandages at one place the other. He didn't care. The boy couldn't do a thing. His smile grew wider. He, Zuko Sozin, son to Ozai Sozin and Ursa ibna Joign laid in a dark alley of the city and would bleed to death after being assaulted, mugged and stabbed. Someone - propably the boy from earlier - lifted him up and everything went dark.

Zuko woke with a start and opened his eyes. Within one second he discovered three things: 

1. He wasn't dead. For this he was grateful.

2. This was *not* his room so this couldn't have been a nightmare. It also was not his own bed but one which felt more like a hospital bed.

3. He was in **pain**. So much so he groaned.

When he groaned it startled a person - until then busy with something lighted by an antique looking lantern -  pushed their chair with a scraping noise back. Zuko didn't knew one could cherish a sound so ugly this much.  As he continued to take his sorroundings in the room seemingly belonged to a nurse living together with a craftsmen. Plain but sturdy interior with clean, well equipped shelves of mixed medical supplies. It seemed tobe nigjt which explained the lantern. The formerly occupied person grabbed the lantern and rushed quietly to him. When the person reached Zoku's bed they proceeded to hang the lantern on a hook and shine into his eyes with a penlight. The light was nearly not bearable but his reactions seem to satisfy the person as they tucked the penlight away. He then was poked and prodded at various places. Everyone of them making Zuko groan. The apparent doctor seemed content with Zuko's condition for they relaxed.  
"Boy, you gave us a good scare. You were nearly gone when Aang found you." the person - a man after his rather deep voice said. "You know I'm not too fond of people attempting to die under my knife."  
"Who ... are ... you?" Zuko's voice sounded rough maybe because breathing hurt. "Who... is .. Aang?"  
"My humble self? Dr. Jacob Ermakov, at your service." He grinned suggesting a bow. "Oh, and not to forget Aang He your capable savior." extending his arm to point  at figure laying on a couch. "The whole ordeal was pretty though on him. Patched you up, carried you here and then assisted treating you." Zuko began to speak but was promptly interrupted. "I would n't try to speak, kiddo. Whoever you made angry he put you through mincer. Several broken bones and stab wounds,  bruises and contusions galore." This being mentioned Zuko noticed his right arm and his left leg covered in something particularly rigid, his right ankle and knee, his breast and his head wrapped in bandages.  
"How ... long?" asked Zuko.  
"How long you've been here?"  
Zuko nodded.   
"Well, about 30 hours. Why? Are you expected anywhere?"  
Zoku shook his head. And did some math in his head, as was assaulted near yesterdays mignight it was a few hours to daybreak.    
"Well, too bad. You don't have some to take care of you by chance? 'Cause you will need them believe me? How old are you anyway?"  
Zuko mimed a writing motion. If he wasn't supposed to speak, he shouldn't. The motion seemed to confuse the man.  
"Eh ... What? Ohhh! Right, wait a moment." He went to desk, rummaged a second around, and came back with a beat-down clipboard and a pencil covered with bite marks. As the man rummaged around Zuko noticed his increased perception. "Never mind the bite marks it's clean." The doctor waited for Zuko to take of the items.As he stood next to the lamp Zoku could get a better look of the man. He looked about 30 years of age with light shoulderlong shaggy hair and baggy eyes. He wore a doctors robe too, but it was stained and cut off mid forearm. Under the robe he could see a turquoise shirt and a peculiar set of metallic pendants. Dogtags he realised  
These observations didn't ease his suspicions of neither the man nor the pencil but he needed means to communicate so he accepeted to clipboard and the pencil. Due to his accent and appearance he assumed the man woul be more familiar with the common tongue so he wrote 'Zuko Sozin, 19' in the according signs. The man studied the signs, too intent for someone native to the common tonge. His face darkend on his name.  
"Ahg, kreat nov ei hafe a dweeb's son in my houze." He was obviously upset. So Zuko decided to distract him as he wrote 'Could you contact Iroh Niwa?'.  
This seemed to work as Dr. Ermakov raised an eyebrow and said "Ol' Iron taken on his wifes name and you in?" Zuko nodded on both counts. "Sure I can let your uncle know you'r still kickin'. Can't say I'm overly surprised that this doofus ov your vather threw you out." Zuko noticed how much this stranger seemed to know about his father so he wrote 'Who are you?'.  
"The hits to your a bit harder than I thought, eh? Don't worry, it'll pass, eventually." This wasn't what Zuko wanted to know so reiterated his question by tapping the 'are'. Whisps of smoke rising as his powers rose and charred the pencil.  
"Oh. You want to know who I **am**?" Zuko nodded. "Alright, Kid. Thats a question I'll answer another day. For now gest some rest." Zuko made a drinking motion. "You're hydrated by the infusion and I intent to keep it that way for a while more." Now Zuko noticed a few infusion tubes leading into his left arm. The doctor rose fixing something on the inevitable infusions and said, more to himself that to Zuko: "Alright, it has bin six hours. Che won't be happy budt I need a snooze. Another pot ov coffi end I'll run up ze wall's." He shook his head and proceeded to wake the figure on the couch. They rose slowly, like someone unwilling to get up.  
As the person hurried of - presumably to get themself clothed - the man went to fix the couch and to tidy the desk. He put an clipboard on the foot of his bed after writing something on it. He seemed busy with his mind, so Zuko kept quiet. The person from earlier came back and said something in a guttural sounding language. The doctor pointed at his bed and said something in a lower voice. Standing in the doorframe he observed how the new person approached Zuko. As they came into the light Zuko could get a closer look. His apparent rescuer was  a pale, about 15 years old male . A flowing gown of some kind in reds and yellows covering a wired frame. Not the wired frame of someone who ate few but of one who kept exercised. His head was covered by a unruly mop of darkish hair. The boy took up the clipboard from Zuko's Bed and read whatever was written on it.
"Well, knowing Jacob introductions  are superfluous."  
